# testar-text-input-data

This repository contains processed and summary data of the project
`Using Code Instrumentation to Improve Text Input Generation for
Scriptless GUI Testing`.

## Summary of experiment

The project involves an experiment on two Systems under Test (SUTs): CKAN
and Indico. In the experimental condition, instrumentation was used to
generate potentially relevant text inputs for GUI testing, and also for
measuring line coverage as a dependent variable. A custom action selection
algorithm was used to prioritize entering and submitting text in forms.
Aside from the experimental condition, the experiment involved
three other conditions:
- `control-customactionselection` : control condition with instrumentation and
  the same custom action selection algorithm as the experimental condition,
  but random text input generation.
- `control-defaultactionselection` : control condition with instrumentation, however
  TESTAR's default action selection algorithm and random text input generation is used.
- `plain`: reference condition without instrumentation. It uses the default
  action selection algorithm and random text input generation. Since the SUT is
  not instrumented in this condition, no coverage data is available.

This repository contains processed data and summary data of the comparison dataset,
which was used to compare the outcomes between conditions.

The experiment consists of a fixed number of experiment runs per condition (35 for CKAN,
49 for Indico). Each run consisted of 10 sequences of up to 300 actions. Experimental runs are
designated by a run number and the condition. In other words, experimental run `n` in condition `A`
is different from experimental run `n` in condition `B`.

## Raw data

The raw data, which includes TESTAR logs, screenshots of SUT states, as well as exports
of the state database and coverage database, has not been included in this
repository due to its size (approximately 230 GB). It can be made available on
request, however.

## Processed data

Processed data files are formatted like `EXP.NAME.EXTENSION`. `EXP` refers to the experiment name
(`exp1c` for CKAN and `exp1i` for Indico). `NAME` is the name of the data file
The processed data consists of several files:
- `coverage` : contains the number of lines covered by each sequence. The `Application` column
   has coverage information about the SUT itself (without any libraries), whereas the `Total` column
   includes lines covered in modules used by the application.
- `rawcoverage` : has a list of source code lines ordered by condition and sequence number. Lines
   are identified by the full path of the source code file in the SUT container and the line number.
- `result` : contains the result of each sequence. `0` means no errors were detected. `1` means an
   error was detected. Errors can be caused by bugs in the SUT, false positives and by failures unrelated
   to the SUT itself (e.g. failures of the instrumentation).
- `runtime`: time needed for each experimental run, in milliseconds, as well as the number
   of actions. Note that the number of actions includes three login actions per sequence. Login actions are not
   subject to the normal action selection and text generation algorithms.
- `selection`: this file contains the list of experimental runs which were included in the comparison dataset.
   The list can be used to relate the processed and summary data to the raw data.
- `seqtime` : time needed to run each sequence, in milliseconds.

The processed data files can be found in directory `processed-data`.

## Summary data

The `summary-data` directory contains pictures of the plots, as well as the table data and lists generated by
the summary scripts.

The files include:
- `actiontime.{tex,csv,png}` : table and plot of average time per action by condition, in seconds
- `coverage-by-seq-total.avg.{tex,csv.png}`: table and plot of average coverage by sequence, in number of lines
- `coverage-by-seq-total.median.{tex,csv,png}`: table and plot of median coverage by sequence, in number of lines
- `coverage-aggregate-add.png` : plot of aggregate coverage across conditions (including experiment + control condition)
- `coverage-diff-by-seq.{tex,csv,png}` : plot of differential coverage between conditions (i.e. number of lines covered by one condition,
   but not by another one)
- `coverage-histogram.png` : histogram plot of distribution of coverage per sequence, by condition
- `runtime.{tex,csv,png}` : table and plot of experiment run times, in seconds
- `seqtime.{tex,csv,png}` : table and plot of experiment sequence times in seconds
- `diff-coverage-list.csv` : overview of lines covered by one condition, but not by another
- `unique-coverage-list.csv` : overview of lines covered uniquely by one condition

## License

Creative Commons CC-BY-SA 4.0 license; see
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.txt or enclosed
LICENSE file
